About half of the world's population subsists entirely or somewhat on rice and consumes nearly half billion metric tons of rice is consumed yearly all over the world. Disease of rice plant leaf is one of the most common obstacles in the production of rice to meet the huge amount of demand. In this technological era, smart and efficient technique can be advantageous instead of traditional system to detect the rice leaf diseases. The smart agriculture or intelligent farming is getting popularity day by day and for this machine learning (ML) based technologies are proven effective tools. This paper presents a deep learning based smartphone application to classify three common rice leaf diseases: Bacterial Leaf Blight, Brown Spot and Leaf Smut. A simple CNN has been designed for faster operation targeting the smart phone application suitability. The disease affected region is segmented using K-means clustering based segmentation approach from the resized and augmented rice leaf dataset. The CNN model ………………….  The model has been trained using augmented data set of 2700 images, validated with 1200 images and tested on 630 images of three common rice leaf diseases: Bacterial Leaf Blight, Brown Spot and Leaf Smut. The test classification accuracy is obtained as 97.9%. The model performance has been compared to related works and found satisfactory for practical application of automated rice leaf diseases detection system.  In consequence, the trained model is exported into smart phone application to introduce real life application of the outcome of this work by capturing the infected leaf using smartphone camera. 
